SE1600CSCBO01
Statistics for Owners of Respondent Employer Firms by How the Owner Initially Acquired the Business by Sector, Gender, Ethnicity, Race, Veteran Status, and Years in Business for the U.S., States, and Top 50 MSAs: 2016

Release Date : 08/10/2018

[NOTE: Includes firms with payroll at any time during 2016. Employment reflects the number of paid employees during the March 12 pay period. Data are based on Census administrative records, and the estimates of business ownership by gender, ethnicity, race, and veteran status are from the 2016 Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs. Detail may not add to total due to rounding or because a Hispanic firm may be of any race. Moreover, each owner had the option of selecting more than one race and therefore is included in each race selected. Respondent firms include all firms that responded to the characteristic(s) tabulated in this dataset and reported gender, ethnicity, race, or veteran status for at least one owner and were not publicly held or not classifiable by gender, ethnicity, race, and veteran status. The 2016 Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs asked for information for up to four persons owning the largest percentage(s) of the business. Percentages are for owners of respondent firms only and are not recalculated when the dataset is resorted. Percentages are always based on total reporting (defined above) within a gender, ethnicity, race, veteran status, and/or industry group for the characteristics tabulated in this dataset. Firms with more than one domestic establishment are counted in each geographic area and industry in which they operate, but only once in the U.S. and state totals for all sectors. For information on confidentiality protection, sampling error, nonsampling error, and definitions, see Survey Methodology.]


 
 
  Table Name 
   Statistics for Owners of Respondent Employer Firms by How the Owner Initially Acquired the Business by Sector, Gender, Ethnicity, Race, Veteran Status, and Years in Business for the U.S., States, and Top 50 MSAs: 2016  
  
 
  Release Schedule 
   This file was released in August 2018.  
  
 
  Key Table Information 
   These data are related to all other 2016 ASE files. Refer to the Methodology section of the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs website for additional information.  
  
 
  Universe 
   The universe for the 2016 Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs (ASE) includes all U.S. firms with paid employees operating during 2016 with receipts of $1,000 or more which are classified in the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) sectors 11 through 99, except for NAICS 111, 112, 482, 491, 521, 525, 813, 814, and 92 which are not covered. Firms with more than one domestic establishment are counted in each geographic area and industry in which they operate, but only once in the U.S. total. For Characteristics of Business Owners (CBO) data, all estimates are of owners of firms responding to the ASE. That is, estimates are based only on firms providing gender, ethnicity, race, or veteran status; or firms not classifiable by gender, ethnicity, race, and veteran status that returned an ASE online questionnaire with at least one question answered. The ASE online questionnaire provided space for up to four owners to report their characteristics. CBO data are not representative of all owners of all firms operating in the United States. The data do not represent all business owners in the United States.  
  
 
  Geographic Coverage 
   The data are shown for: 
    
    United States 
    States and the District of Columbia 
    The fifty most populous metropolitan areas 
     
  
 
  Industry Coverage 
   The data are shown for the total of all sectors (00) and the 2-digit NAICS code level.  
  
 
  Data Items and Other Identifying Records 
   Statistics for Owners of Respondent Employer Firms by How the Owner Initially Acquired the Business by Sector, Gender, Ethnicity, Race, Veteran Status, and Years in Business for the U.S., States, and Top 50 MSAs: 2016 contains data on: 
    
    Number of owners of respondent firms with paid employees 
    Percent of number of owners of respondent firms with paid employees 
    The data are shown for: 
    
    Gender, ethnicity, race and veteran status of owners of respondent firms 
      
      All owners of respondent firms 
      Female 
      Male 
      Hispanic 
      Non-Hispanic 
      White 
      Black or African American 
      American Indian and Alaska Native 
      Asian 
      Native Hawaiian and Other Pacific Islander 
      Some other race 
      Minority 
      Nonminority 
      Veteran 
      Nonveteran 
       
    Years in business 
      
      All firms 
      Firms less than 2 years in business 
      Firms with 2 to 3 years in business 
      Firms with 4 to 5 years in business 
      Firms with 6 to 10 years in business 
      Firms with 11 to 15 years in business 
      Firms with 16 or more years in business 
       
    How the owner initially acquired the business 
      
      Founded or started 
      Purchased 
      Inherited 
      Transfer of ownership or gift 
      Total reporting 
      Item not reported 
       
     
  
 
  Sort Order 
   Data are presented in ascending levels by: 
    
    Geography (GEO_ID) 
    NAICS code (NAICS2012) 
    Gender, ethnicity, race, and veteran status (ASECBO) 
    Years in business (YIBSZFI) 
    How the owner initially acquired the business (ACQBUS) 
    The data are sorted on underlying control field values, so control fields may not appear in alphabetical order.  
  
 
  FTP Download 
   Download the entire SE1600CSCBO01 table at: http://www2.census.gov/econ2016/SE/sector00/SE1600CSCBO01.zip  
  
 
  Contact Information 
   To contact the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs staff: 
    
    Visit the website at http://www.census.gov/programs-surveys/ase.html. 
    Email general, nonsecure, and unencrypted messages to ewd.annual.survey.of.entrepreneurs@census.gov. 
    Call 301.763.1546 between 7 a.m. and 5 p.m. (EST), Monday through Friday. 
    Write to: U.S. Census Bureau Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs 4600 Silver Hill Road Washington, DC 20233  
     
  


ECONF$X
	X	Not applicable

FNOTE$650
	(650)	Crop and Animal Production (NAICS 111 and 112) are out of scope of the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs.

FNOTE$651
	(651)	Rail Transportation (NAICS 482) and the Postal Service (NAICS 491) are out of scope of the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs.

FNOTE$652
	(652)	Monetary Authorities-Central Banks (NAICS 521) and Funds, Trusts, and Other Financial Vehicles (NAICS 525) are out of scope of the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs.

FNOTE$653
	(653)	Religious, Grantmaking, Civic, Professional, and Similar Organizations (NAICS 813) and Private Households (NAICS 814) are out of scope of the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs.

Source: U.S. Census Bureau, 2016 Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs
Note: The data in this file are based on Census administrative records and the Annual Survey of Entrepreneurs (ASE). To maintain confidentiality, the Census Bureau suppresses data to protect the identity of any business or individual. The census results in this file contain sampling and nonsampling errors. Data users who create their own estimates using data from this file should cite the Census Bureau as the source of the original data only. For the full technical documentation, see Survey Methodology.

Symbols:S - Withheld because estimate did not meet publication standardsN - Not available or not comparableX - Not applicableFor a complete list of all economic programs symbols, see the Symbols Glossary

